



Lessons

Create an action type
There's a lot of different decisions the Flight Operations team might take in response to a Flight Alert. For example, they might need to reassign gate crews, contact the maintenance team, arrange for a plane swap, etc.
A full cross-team workflow like this often needs to be implemented incrementally in Foundry. We'll assume we're just getting started with only the Flight Operations team for now. Their immediate need is to understand more concretely what is causing their delays. While root-causing a delay is still largely a manual process for them, capturing the conclusion in Foundry is a good first step. Let's add an action to do that.
Step 1: Enable edits
1. Open your [username] Flight Alert object type in Ontology Manager 2. Switch to the Datasources tab 3. In the Edits section, toggle on Allow edits

Step 2: Create a new action type
1. Click New > Action type in the top right of the screen 2. Create a Modify object action for your Flight Alert
1. Select Object from among the available tabs (default value) 2. Select Object type: Your [username] Flight Alert 3. Select Modify object(s) 4. Click Next 3. Add a Root Cause property 1. Select Add property > Root Cause 2. Click Next 4. Name your action type 1. Set Action type name: [<username>] Assign root cause (where <username> is your
username) 2. Click Next 5. Give yourself permission to execute this action 1. Switch to the User tab 2. User is: (yourself) 6. Click Create
You should then see the definition of your new action:

Concepts
Actions provide a controlled way to update objects. Because we've only defined one action that touches only the Root Cause property, this is the only property that users can edit.
Action Form
Every time you invoke this action from different contexts in Foundry, a common input form will collect the necessary input from a user. If you switch to the Parameters tab of your action type, you can see a preview of this form.
There is a lot of further customization you could do here. For example, you can rename input fields, assign default values, hide fields, and more. For example, for now we are going to accept any free text as the new Root Cause value. If you wanted to, you could constrain this to a list of multiple choices that you either enter manually or derive from a dataset. (You can see the original [OFT] Assign root cause action type's Root Cause parameter for an example of this.)
This customization is another example of how actions can control changes to data: You might limit choices to only certain allowed input values.
Submission Criteria

Another control is to specify who can invoke the action at all. You set this during action type creation. You can update it on the Security & Submission Criteria tab.
Rules, Side-effects, & Functions
When you execute an action, it runs one or more rules, which you can see on the Rules tab. For now, we are applying a very simple Modify object rule that sets one property value. However, you could add other rules that send a Foundry notification to another Foundry user, invoke a webhook to call out to an external system, or create and delete other objects.
Instead of these rules, you can instead back your action with a function. Such codebased functions are also used elsewhere in Foundry beyond just backing actions.
Step 3: Save your changes
1. Click Save in the top right of the screen 2. Click Save to ontology 3. Click Save changes

