



Lessons

Encrypt the Sensitive Column in Pipeline Builder Step 1: Create a Pipeline Builder resource
Navigate back to your folder for this course.
1. Click the green + New button in the top right and search for Pipeline Builder. 2. Name the file something similar to [YourUsername] Cipher Test Pipeline. 3. Select Batch pipeline. 4. Click Create pipeline.

5. Click on Add Foundry data.

6. Select the employee_data.csv dataset and click Add. 7. You should now see the dataset appear as a node in your Pipeline Builder graph.
Step 2: Use the Cipher encryption transform in Pipeline Builder
1. Click the employee_data node and select Transform.

2. In the query box, type Cipher encrypt and select the option. 3. In the Expression box, select the Employee _Name column. We are looking to encrypt this
value. 4. In the Cipher license rid box, select the Cipher license you just created. It should be
stored in your folder for this course.
5. Click Apply. 6. In the dataset preview box towards the bottom of the page, ensure Output table is
selected. 7. In the Employee_Name column, you should now see CIPHER values instead of the
employee names, indicating the data is encrypted.

8. Click back to the Input table tab to see the data pre-encryption, and then back to the Output table tab to see the result of the data after our Cipher encryption transform.
9. At the top of the page, click X Close to return to the Pipeline Builder graph. You should now see the transform node for the Cipher transform.
10. Click on the Cipher transform node and select Add output and then New dataset.
11. On the right-side panel, rename your dataset to [yourUsername] Encrypted Employee Data and ensure all 19 columns are mapped (this should be done automatically).
12. Click Save. 13. Click Deploy.

14. One the right-side screen, ensure all configuration options are checked and click Deploy pipeline. This will create a dataset from your Pipeline Builder file that can be used in other analyses in the platform.

Step 3: Review your encrypted data
1. Navigate back to your folder for this course. You should now see a dataset file for [YourUsername] Encrypted Employee Data.
2. Double click on the dataset to open it. 3. Click on the Employee_Name column. The stats toolbar should pop-up from the bottom
of the page. 4. Take a look at the column stats and notice that the Distinct value is 300. This verifies that
each employee name in the column now has a unique, encrypted identifier rather than the listed employee name. You can see the an example of the full encrypted value on the right hand of the stats pop-up. This dataset can now be used for further analysis in the platform without the risk of users seeing the true employee name values.

